Revamp documentation (#2365)
databrickslabs/remorph: docs/lakebridge/docs/getting_started.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Getting Started
---

# Getting Started with Lakebridge

This guide walks you through a complete end-to-end migration using **SQL Server as the source** and **Databricks SQL as the target**. You will assess your SQL code, transpile it, and validate the output — in about 15 minutes.

**Prerequisites:** Lakebridge must already be installed. If not, see [Installation](/docs/installation) first.

---

> ## _(Optional)_ Step 1: Split Your SQL Files

Reviewer: Should we be introducing the splitter in the _Getting Started_ section?

It introduces friction (extra download/install step) and it's normally something we don't mention initially.

I think this belongs more in a Bladebridge-specific section in answer to what you can do if the analyzer or converter are taking too long. Or maybe I'm misunderstanding its role?

Author: The splitter is useful for both analyzer and both converters, as it leaves the files with single statements, what I would really like to happen is that we split under the hood by default, but in light that we don't, I figured it'd be a good idea to mention it as an optional step.

If your SQL code lives in monolithic files that contain multiple objects (stored procedures, tables, views, functions), split them first. The transpiler and analyzer both work at the individual-object level.

```bash
./sqlsplit -d /path/to/your/sql -o /path/to/split/output
```

- `-d` accepts a directory of `.sql` files
- `-o` must be a directory that already exists
- Output is organized into subfolders: `/PROCEDURE`, `/FUNCTION`, `/TABLE`, `/VIEW`

See [SQL Splitter](/docs/sql_splitter) for full usage and download.

:::tip
Splitting first gives the Analyzer more granular, per-object results and gives the transpiler a cleaner input.
:::

---

## _(Optional)_ Step 2: Assess Your Code

Run the Analyzer on the (optionally split) files to understand complexity and identify patterns the transpiler may need help with.

```bash
databricks labs lakebridge analyze \

>   --source-tech mssql \

Reviewer: Does `mssql` work?

I think it needs to be:
```suggestion
  --source-tech 'MS SQL Server' \
```

  --source-directory /path/to/split/output \
  --report-file /path/to/analysis/results.xlsx
```

The Analyzer produces a complexity report saved as an Excel file (`.xlsx`). Objects flagged as `HIGH` or `VERY HIGH`
complexity may need manual review after transpilation.

See [Assessment Guide](/docs/assessment) for more details.

---

## Step 3: Configure Transpilation

> During `install-transpile` (covered in [Installation](/docs/installation#install-transpile)), you were prompted for your migration parameters. For this SQL Server → Databricks SQL guide, the values to use are:

Reviewer: How about…
```suggestion
During `install-transpile` (covered in [Installation](/docs/installation#install-transpile)), you are prompted for your migration parameters. For this _Getting Started_ guide, the values to use are:
```

- **Source dialect:** `mssql`
- **Input path:** `/path/to/split/output`

> - **Output directory:** `/path/to/transpiled/output`

Reviewer: I think they'll be prompted to choose the transpiler as well because both transpilers support it. This guide, in particular the `FIXME` instructions below, assume `Morpheus` is selected.

Morpheus is the recommended transpiler for SQL Server migrations — it provides strong correctness guarantees and warns you when it cannot fully guarantee equivalence.

See [Which transpiler should I use?](/docs/choosing_tools#transpiler-bladebridge-vs-morpheus-vs-switch) if you are migrating from a different source.

---

## Step 4: Transpile

Run the transpilation (if params already configured in previous step):

```bash
databricks labs lakebridge transpile
```

Or pass all parameters inline:

```bash
databricks labs lakebridge transpile \
  --source-dialect mssql \
  --input-source /path/to/split/output \
  --output-folder /path/to/transpiled/output
```

**Reading the output:**

In the command output, you will see a final summary with all files converted and whether any errors were found.

You may also find inline comments in the output files prefixed with "FIXME" that you'll need to review.

Files with errors still contain as much translated output as possible. Review the flagged positions and fix manually.

---

## Step 5: Reconcile

After deploying your transpiled SQL to Databricks, run the Reconciler to validate that the data output matches the source.

> 

Reviewer: I think it's essential to mention that the `configure-reconcile` from the installation guide has been done before this step, otherwise it won't work.
